Rework "Nano RP2040 Connect not being detected on USB port" [HC-1425] (#407)
arduino/help-center-content: content/Hardware Support/Nano Family/Reset-the-sketch-memory-on-Nano-RP2040-Connect.md

---
title: "Reset the sketch memory on Nano RP2040 Connect"
id: 4404168794514
---

If your Nano RP2040 Connect isn't recognized by your computer or fails to power up after a firmware update or sketch upload, performing a factory reset may resolve the issue.

> 
> ---
> 
> ## How to Factory Reset your Nano RP2040 Connect
> 
> 1. To start the reset process, either double-tap the reset button or connect a jumper wire between the **REC** and **GND** pins. This action should open a mass storage folder on your computer.
> 
> 1. If you used a jumper wire, carefully remove it while the mass storage folder is still open.
> 
> 1. Download `blink.ino.elf.uf2` file from [here](https://docs.arduino.cc/tutorials/nano-rp2040-connect/rp2040-01-technical-reference#board-not-detected).
> 
> 1. Drag and drop the `blink.ino.elf.uf2` file into the mass storage folder.
> 
> 1. If successful, the board’s LED will blink and cycle through red, green, and blue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

1. Connect the board to your computer via USB.

1. Double-tap the reset button to enter bootloader mode (Alternatively, connect a jumper wire between the **REC** and **GND** pins). This will open RP2040's mass storage folder on your computer.

1. If you used a jumper wire, remove it while the mass storage folder is still open.

1. Download the <a class="link-download" href="https://content.arduino.cc/assets/Blink.ino.elf.uf2">`blink.ino.elf.uf2` file</a>.

1. Drag and drop the `blink.ino.elf.uf2` file into RP2040's mass storage folder.

1. The board’s built-in LED should now blink and cycle through red, green, and blue, confirming that the reset process was successful.
```
I suggest linking directly to the file to download for two reasons: 
1- the user doesn't have to look for the file in another page;
2- easier to maintain in the long run (if the Arduino Docs page changes, for example).
